[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
One of the subjects
that intrigues us above all else
is what happens after we die.
For dream-work
author Robert Moss,
the journey began with
illness and unseen companions.
These silvery beings that
glowed with inner light
worked on his little body.
He felt at home
among them, but had
to return to his
body and earth life
to tell a lifetime of stories.
Robert is with us today to
share his remarkable life story.
It's wonderful to see you again.
I've interviewed you a couple
of other times about your work,
but this is the backstory.
The boy who died and came back,
that's your backstory of life.
And what an interesting
life you've had.
It's the type of life
you read about in novels
of shamans and their
early start in life.
And in fact, you did
start out in a wild part
of the world, Australia.
>>ROBERT MOSS: Very wild part.
Good to be dreaming with
you in Boulder, Regina.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MOSS: Yeah.
When I was three
years old, my mother
decided to take me from
the east coast of Australia
to West Australia, where
her Irish family lived,
to meet them and particularly
to meet her aunt-- Auntie Dick,
we called her.
I don't know why.
The opera singer--
>>REGINA: Auntie Dick.
>>MOSS: Auntie Dick.
The opera singer--
>>REGINA: The opera
singer, of course.
>>MOSS: --a friend of
Dame Nellie Melba--
who was a clairvoyant.
She didn't make a fuss about it.
She would just read for people.
>>REGINA: Auntie Dick
was a clairvoyant?
>>MOSS: Yes,
including the Prince
of Wales with whom she danced
in the theater in Perth
at a certain time.
A rather grand lady.
And she's reading
the tea leaves,
the old fashioned thing.
And she looks at my tea leaves,
turns the cup upside down,
leaves the room
and will not speak.
Afterwards we heard
the stories, she
saw my death in the tea leaves.
I'm three years old.
She was correct.
That might seem like
a ridiculous statement
since I'm sitting
with you right now,
but that winter I died in
a hospital in Tasmania.
And I was pronounced dead--
>>REGINA: You were
three years old.
>>MOSS: Three years old,
I was pronounced dead.
By every sign they could
measure, I was dead.
When I came back, the
doctors were very surprised.
And they said to my
parents, aw, your boy.
He died, and he came back.
Didn't he?
So that's the title of
the book, and that's
the way I've thought of myself
ever since-- the boy who
died and came back.
I can't tell you much
about what I was doing out
of the body, age three.
I can tell you it
was very hard living
in the body in this world
for the years that followed.
>>REGINA: Well, it must have
been, because you experienced
a totally different non-physical
reality and this is so dense.
>>MOSS: Yes, and I came back.
Living in a body was like
trying to drive an automobile
without being-- reach the
petals with your little feet,
without any driving
instructions.
When I was nine, I died again.
And that's, perhaps, a
more interesting story.
>>REGINA: OK, now.
We're going to get into that.
But there is something
else about you
that was very
peculiar-- well, there
are many things about you
that are peculiar, actually.
>>MOSS: I've been called worse.
[LAUGHING TOGETHER]
>>REGINA: Since this is
the third time we've met.
You had this posh,
little British accent.
>>MOSS: Yes.
>>REGINA: That's
not what happens
in that part of the world.
>>MOSS: Yes.
I had to put on
an Aussie accent.
I could do it, but
it wasn't natural.
And I would sound like a proper
little Brit who'd just arrived.
And old enough to be mocked by
the kids in my neighborhood,
I'd have to turn it into this.
>>REGINA: Why did
you have this accent?
>>MOSS: Well, I grew up with the
memories of a Royal Air Force
pilot in Britain,
who had belonged
to a magical in Britain but
wanted to fight and fought
and was shot down
over Holland in 1941.
I seem to have his life
memories, including knowledge
of esoteric things
that he liked.
For example, I always
knew the tarot long
before I found a tarot deck.
And I knew not only
how to read the tarot
but how it was used
in ritual and ceremony
in a certain kind of
esoteric tradition.
So I grew up, and the memories
of his landscapes, his lives,
his relationships were with me.
So I--
>>REGINA: And he obviously
went to a posh public school.
>>MOSS: Well, absolutely.
Why not? [LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: Right.
So you had his accent.
You come back as a
little tyke in Australia
with this posh British--
>>MOSS: My parents
would say from time,
oh, the stork got
the babies mixed up.
Where's our little Aussie kid?
We got the bloody,
little English lord.
So in early childhood, there
was also that-- the problem
of living with the memories
of another lifetime.
I've never had a straightforward
view about reincarnation.
However, I would accept
that I'm closely connected
to the life of that man.
In the 1930s--
>>REGINA: Well, and others.
You've remember many others too.
>>MOSS: Yes.
It's come in waves.
But I mean, one of
the conclusions I've
had to form about life
based on my experience
is we are connected with
dramas and personalities
in different times--
past, future, parallel,
and in other dimensions.
They're part of
our current story.
Certain choices we make can
mobilize an active connection
with one of these personalities.
And at that point, it because
really exciting; doesn't it?
It's as if the dramas and
personalities from somewhere
else are erupting into
the present reality.
And sometimes as
if we're stepping
into that other
time or dimension
and engaging with people
there, all at the same time.
>>REGINA: That's very true.
You know, one thing
I've noticed is
that, depending on who I'm with
and what the circumstances,
the whole cadence of my
speech-- the words I use--
are completely different in one
conversation versus another.
And I've often wondered
if it's because it's
triggered by something.
Whether it's that
person literally,
or whether it's the frequency
of that person triggering
something from someplace else.
>>MOSS: Yes These
triggers are fascinating.
Sometimes the trigger
is a landscape.
We move to a certain place.
We enter a certain landscape,
and the memories of a life
lived in that
environment come to us.
That happened to be in midlife.
I decided to escape
big cities, live
on a farm in upstate New York.
I bought a lot of land.
I thought I'd get to know
the trees and the animals,
put down some roots
in my adopted country.
I found myself dreaming, both
in night dreams and in visions--
spontaneous visions--
of people who
lived in the area 300 years ago.
>>REGINA: Oh, and we're
going to get into that story.
That is a big story.
That was a big influence
on your life; wasn't it?
>>MOSS: Yes.
This was the turning
point in midlife.
This was dying and
coming back, not
in the sense of
being in the hospital
but of changing
your life radically.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now at nine, you did die again?
>>MOSS: I did.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now let's go to the
time you died at nine,
and where you went.
And these silvery beings
and who was working on you.
And go all the way through
and talk about the moongate.
>>MOSS: The moongate.
All right.
So I'm rushed to hospital, Saint
Andrews hospital in Melbourne
because I've complained of
discomfort in my lower abdomen.
My appendix is about to erupt.
I've just been in
hospital with pneumonia.
They're doing
emergency appendectomy,
and I slip out of the body.
And I'm looking at the
surgery and the knives
and the blood and
the good nurses
talking and looking down
from under the ceiling.
And I don't want to be there.
I leave the room.
I've forgotten,
really, that there's
a body on the operating table.
I see my mother grieving.
I don't want to be with
her, watching her pain
and feeling guilty
for making her so sad.
I want to be a normal,
nine-year-old kid.
I want to go to the beach.
I want to go to that theme park
down the beach in Melbourne,
Lunar Park, just for fun.
It's a big moon face.
It's the gate to the
theme park, and you
walk through the mouth of the
moon to enter the theme park.
I'm just going to
go on the rides,
look at girls in summer dresses.
>>REGINA: Well,
you're out of body.
It's not like you need
an admission ticket.
>>MOSS: Yeah, I
don't need a ticket.
I've forgotten about the
body in the operating room.
I go through the moongate, and
suddenly I'm not in Lunar Park.
I'm pulled into a world
that is quite different.
It feels like a world
inside the world.
The beings are beautiful.
They're humanoid, but they're
not quite like the people
up top.
They're silvery.
They're luminous.
They're elegant.
They're terribly tall.
I mean, they're terribly
tall and skinny even
by Boulder standards.
And they welcome me
as one of their own.
And they raised me.
They didn't just work on me.
They do something to
me, but they raise me.
And I'm suddenly engaged
and living a whole life
with these people.
And it seems as if
I grow to adulthood.
I know the love of their women.
I become a father,
a grandfather.
Some kind of shaman or elder.
I have no idea how
long this takes.
Maybe 90 years in mortal time.
Maybe more.
And eventually that
body is used up.
It's not immortal.
And I think I'm going to go
to some place among the stars,
but suddenly I'm pulled
back into the body
of a nine-year-old in
a Melbourne hospital
room, remembering.
Very hard.
>>REGINA: I want to go into
that a little bit more.
And I know you were talking
with your driver on the way in.
And he said, I want to
hear more about that part.
Write a whole book
about it, what
it was like with
the silvery beings.
So let's talk about that.
Not very many people have
the cognizant memory, anyway,
of being with beings from other
cultures-- off-planet cultures,
other-dimensional cultures.
What was life among them like?
And how was it differing from
what you experienced on earth?
And all the ways?
>>MOSS: Well, there
was a full experience
of pleasure and pain.
And to that extent,
it's a physical reality.
It's a reality in which we know
pleasure and pain, feelings
that are strong.
On the other hand,
all sorts of things
can be accomplished by
thought, which humans
can't do in the
dense material form.
Things can be done.
Things can be
constructed very quickly.
I mean, reality creation is
something that is understood.
You can create things very
quickly by imagination.
And there is a
connection, a heart bond,
between people, which
is quite lovely.
You feel that you're in the
most heart-centered community
of people who love each
other, support each other.
I don't have any impressions
of war, violence, competition,
or jealousy amongst these
people, for example.
And I have the sense that
there is an immense depth
of community with
them, which I loved.
They became my family.
I loved this family.
I didn't want to leave
them, except that I
had lived a whole life.
It wasn't like being
forced to come back.
It seemed like a
natural progression.
And the end of that
progression, there
was the return, or the
descent, into a body
in a certain landscape in
Australia in the 1950s.
>>REGINA: Did you feel that that
might be, on some level, a soul
family of yours that
you had been with before
or will be with in the future?
>>MOSS: Yes.
I'd like to think that I will
be with a family like that
in the future.
I like to think that even though
I didn't have clarity on it
when I came back at nine,
I may have come back
on assignment into this world.
An assignment that I'm trying
to understand and fulfill.
I'd like to think that all
of us have soul assignments,
sacred assignments
in this world,
and that we might do better
when we remember some
of the elements
of what those are.
>>REGINA: What I also
found interesting
is that around that time you met
a little aboriginal boy named
Jacko.
And I love what he had to
say to you, because it's
the first time you really--
It sounds like you really
had kind of reinforcement
for this kind of experience
in life that was common to
the aboriginals in Australia.
>>MOSS: Well, Jacko gave me a
very simple matter-of-fact way
of understanding
these things when
I needed a model
of understanding.
My society wasn't giving me one.
He'd say, oh, yeah?
We do that.
We get real sick, we go
and live with the spirits.
And when we get
well, we come back.
And sometimes we're the same,
and sometimes we're not.
So--
>>REGINA: We're in
a different body.
>>MOSS: We might be different.
So, I mean, that was
very helpful to me.
Because it was very hard for me,
in a conservative era growing
up in a military
family in Australia,
to talk about any of this.
Had I had my mother's
Irish family closer,
I might have heard
about people who
were taken away by the sidhe,
by the fairies and returned.
And that might or
might not have given me
a context of understanding.
Much later when I went back
to Australia as an adult,
I saw paintings from Arnhem
Land of people called
Mimi spirits-- very, very
ancient spirits of the land
and the Otherworld,
an aboriginal belief.
And they looked a bit like the
tall, elegant, silvery beings.
But I didn't know what
to call them then,
and I still don't know
what to call them.
A soul family will do.
A soul community will
do as a description.
>>REGINA: And you say
they were humanoid?
I mean, did they have hair on
their heads or was it more--
>>MOSS: I don't think
they had very much hair.
I don't think they cared
about clothes very much.
And I don't think they
were confined to one form.
I mean their forms
were malleable.
They didn't have to
stay in humanoid form.
They could take other
forms-- animal-like forms,
bird-like forms.
I mean, we're in a
different kind of reality.
I sort of flow them
together in my mind now
with visions and soul memories
I've had from later in life.
But just to stick to the
experience at the time
as I remember it, I didn't
know what to call these people.
But I know that being
with them felt like home.
And it felt like
being with people
who are full of love and
understanding and knowledge
and can change
things by thought.
The kind of place where
I really yearned to be.
>>REGINA: Where we
all yearn to be.
And because you
couldn't keep dying,
although you've tried
certainly many times.
How many times?
You had pneumonia
every year; right?
>>MOSS: I had pneumonia 12 times
between the ages of 3 and 11.
It's excessive.
>>REGINA: You were really trying
to climb out of this body.
>>MOSS: The only
way to understand
it is this little kid really
wanted to be somewhere else
and wanted to leave.
I would confess that
that is probably
the fundamental explanation.
At 11 I stopped dying.
I had a great vision
going home from school one
day, in the sky.
The sky seemed to open.
I saw a staff of burning
bronze with a serpent wrapped
around it, filling half the sky.
I got very sick that night.
I don't think I died in
terms of losing vital signs,
but I got pneumonia
for the last time.
And after that,
never got it again.
My parents were very interested
in this vision in the sky.
It's something I'm seeing
with my ordinary eyes
so we could talk about that.
They encouraged me to draw it.
I made a painting
of it later on.
I now recognize that
what I saw in the sky
was very like the
symbol of healing--
>>REGINA: The Caduceus.
>>MOSS: The serpent
staff of healing
of Asclepius, the god of dream
healing of the ancient Greeks.
And a symbol that
we still honor,
still see on ambulances,
hospital doors,
medical letterhead.
Even though people
don't remember,
it's a symbol of a
god-- a divine power
that heals in a certain way.
So that was the sort of seal,
the signateur, the sign,
the secret handshake from
the world that told me, OK.
This is the last time you
need to die like this.
>>REGINA: So in lieu
of that, let's talk
about the Big Guy or Big Man.
The Big Man.
Because this I find
very interesting.
>>MOSS: I think this is actually
very relevant to everyone,
whatever their life story is.
And the preface
to it very briefly
is I think we can go back to a
younger version of ourselves.
We can travel back
in time mentally
to a younger
version of ourselves
and give them support
and encouragement
in their own time.
Amongst the invisible
companions who
helped me when I was a sick
and lonely kid in Australia
was a big guy with white
hair and a pink face,
like the favorite uncle--
>>REGINA: Kind of like you.
>>MOSS: --I'd never had.
Who would sort of come and sit
on the bed in my perception
and say things
like, look, Robert.
I know you're feeling
sorry for yourself.
But you're going
to make it through.
I promise.
You're going to survive.
You're feeling lonely.
I know, kid.
But you'll know the love of
women, and they'll love you.
And you find it hard
to tell your stories.
But I promise you the day
will come when a lot of people
will want to hear your dreams.
You'll be up on a
platform, and you'll
have hundreds or
thousands of people
who want to hear your dreams.
This was the experience
of my boyhood self.
It was a result of an
adult self, younger
than I now am, consciously
traveling back across time
to the kid to say
those things to him.
I really believe
that's one of things
that got young Robert through.
And I really believe,
Regina, that we can do this.
Any of us can do it
for our younger selves.
>>REGINA: You were
parenting yourself, really.
And so the implication
is that you
had moved beyond time and space.
>>MOSS: I think we all can.
You know, I think every
night in our dreams,
whether or not we
remember our dreams
or have any clue
about what's going,
I think we escape linear
time and the confines
of body and brain.
>>REGINA: In dream time.
But you weren't in dream
time when this happened.
Right?
>>MOSS: Well, I'm
consciously going back.
I mean, I'm entering a
conscious visionary state,
traveling back
like a shaman who's
learned to travel
outside time and space.
>>REGINA: But as your
perception as a little boy,
you were seeing
you in the future.
>>MOSS: Yes.
Well, as a little boy I
didn't know who I was seeing.
But I have multiple
sets of memories here.
I have the memory of--
>>REGINA: Well, you
have all your features.
>>MOSS: I have the
memory of the Robert
in his '40s who's going
back to his younger self.
And I have the members
of the younger self who's
seeing this big
guy, doesn't quite
know who he is except that his
presence is very comforting,
very supportive.
He's the mentor, the counselor,
the cheerleader the boy needed.
I think we can all play that
function to our own younger
self.
And by the way, I
think we can all
check in with our older
self too, hopefully
the one who's doing all right.
And see if we can
learn from him or her
about the challenges
and opportunities that
lie on the roads ahead.
>>REGINA: And so do you believe
you can alter your reality then
by going back in time, now,
and talking to that child.
And maybe planting other seeds
within the nine-year-old boy.
Can you alter some
future outcome from you
where you are now?
>>MOSS: I think the
answer is "yes, and."
Not "yes, but," but "yes, and."
Yes, you can alter your reality.
You'll certainly alter
your experience of reality
in a way that can be healing
and supportive for the younger
self, the present self,
and even the future self.
If you were to alter
the events of the life,
you would split off into
a parallel universe,
with different logic than the
one you're currently living.
And if you split off into
that parallel universe,
you might or not remember
if the event track
you were on before was similar.
Physics allows for
this possibility,
that we can change
events at one time track.
The result is to
split the universe.
>>REGINA: So you do
believe in parallel--
>>MOSS: Yes.
I absolutely believe in it.
And I also teach
people experientially
to go into parallel
universes, parallel lifetimes
and learn directly what
that means for you.
So I think we can do that way.
But even if we can't
change the events,
we can change the
experience of the events
in a way that is
supportive of healing.
That is for sure.
>>REGINA: Which
will change the way
we respond to life
in the future.
So do you know of any of
your parallel existences
at this time in your life?
>>MOSS: Well, for
example, I used
to be a bestselling
thriller writer.
And I'd started embarking
on writing historical spy
novels set in the period
of World War II, et cetera.
In my dreams, on a
continuous basis year
after year after
year, I'm out there
in a world of daring do and
secret intrigue and research,
traveling across
time to see what's
going on in Russia
in 1943 or what's
going on in Ulaanbaatar,
Mongolia in 1937, et cetera.
Gathering the material
to continue the career
as a bestselling
historical spy novelist
I left in the late 1980s.
I mean, that is
very clear to me--
that I'm on that track
in a parallel way.
And that I'm still on it
in a parallel reality.
>>REGINA: So you were bringing
the information through.
And so it was a piece
of cake for you.
You weren't having to
really create anything.
You were just drawing it
through from another reality?
>>MOSS: Maybe.
But I'm responding to your
question about experiences
right now of parallel
lives that are
different from the one
we're currently living.
I mean I decided to leave
all that, with its glamour
and excitement, on one side
to go off into the woods
and live on a farm.
And then eventually adopted
a different path altogether.
>>REGINA: Oh, and
we'll get to that part.
But you're saying that aspect
of you that wrote the spy novels
and had those
experiences still exists,
living alongside this reality.
>>MOSS: He's still doing those
things in his own reality.
And I think it's
the same for all
of us, whatever our stories are.
You know, you change a partner.
You change a residence.
You go through the divorce
or the break up, for example.
You may notice in
your dreams, these
are the first clues you may
get, that a parallel self of you
made a different
choice and is still
with that person for
good, bad, or otherwise.
Going forward aging in the
way you would be doing.
I've had those experiences too.
I mean after leaving
a relationship,
I have noticed in
dreams, sometimes
for as long as 10 years,
in a parallel reality.
>>REGINA: That you're
still with that person.
>>MOSS: Aging at the same time.
Making choices we'd be making.
Doing things we'd be doing
if we were still together.
Sometimes this enters the area
of soul loss and soul recovery.
Sometimes it's
related to the fact
that when we make a
wrenching life choice,
we lose a vital part of
our energy somewhere else.
So it opens a possibility
of profound healing
by giving us a way to reach
to a part of our souls
that parted company
with us because
of the difficult choice,
and bring it home.
So this also opens out into a
tremendously rich and important
aspect of healing.
>>REGINA: Yeah, absolutely.
OK.
Now you mentioned
that you knew you
were going to ultimately
be loved by women.
And so this was obviously
very important, even
as a little tyke for you.
And so one night, the hag came.
The dark goddess
came and got you.
Let's talk about that.
>>MOSS: This was my first
experience in this body of sex.
And I'm 14, and I've
never been kissed.
And I'm going through a
kind of sleep paralysis.
And there's something strange
going on, and I can't move.
And there's this
hideous, dark hag,
withered with bleeding heads
or skulls around her neck
and multiple arms
like a spider--
>>REGINA: You asked for it.
>>MOSS: --and
she's on top of me.
And she's forcing me
to have sex with me.
And I don't really
know how to have sex.
But, you know,
I'm doing my best.
And at a certain point in
the course of the night,
she shape shifts and becomes
this absolutely beautiful,
beautiful young woman.
And I'm given to
understand that I've
had my personal vision of Kali--
of Kali Ma, of Kali mother.
And that the price of having
her in a beautiful form
was to meet her in her
terrifying, take-no-prisoners,
crone form.
And that experience at age
14 has also shaped my life.
This isn't a
near-death experience,
but it's a near-terror or
beyond-terror experience.
>>REGINA: Well, you write
about that in your other book,
but you gave me a
homework assignment
to read a particular poem
about the dreams women dream.
And so obviously, this
being had a very deep impact
in terms of having a deep
respect and fear of women
throughout your lifetime.
>>MOSS: I wouldn't say that
I have a deep fear of women.
I'd say that I have learned
to have the deepest respect,
and that I respect
the goddess in women
and respect the
goddess in the form
she takes in the different
landscapes that I visit.
And I've had many
encounters with the goddess.
And some of the chapters in
The Boy Who Died and Came Back
are, of course,
about encountering
the goddess of the land
in different landscapes
and dealing with that.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Yes.
And you write some
beautiful poetry
inspired by that as well.
And so now let's go
back into the time,
you already alluded
to it earlier,
where you had memory of
this posh life in the RAF
and so forth.
Let's go into that and
what that experience was.
And also is that a parallel
reality that exists for you?
Or do you think that might
have been in the past?
>>MOSS: I think both.
I think in the multi-dimensional
universe, it's not either/or.
It's this and this and
this and this and this.
So--
>>REGINA: Well,
he'd be old by now.
Except in a multi-dimensional
universe, not necessarily.
Right?
>>MOSS: Well, I think that
in one parallel universe,
he died in 1941 under torture by
the Gestapo in the Netherlands.
And I seem to know about
that and remember it.
He had a love affair.
Was hid for a time.
Was betrayed by a
Communist, actually,
in the Dutch resistance to the
Gestapo and died under torture.
He was also a man
who knew the magic
of the Order of the Golden
Dawn and all that kind of thing
in Britain in his time.
He was also a junior member
of a group that had access
to Churchill, who was very
interested in fighting
an occult war against the Nazis.
>>REGINA: Can you talk
about that a little
or do we have to read
your spy novels to get it?
>>MOSS: You'll have to read
a novel I haven't written yet
to understand that aspect.
>>REGINA: Will you write that?
>>MOSS: Possibly.
If I'm pushed hard enough.
>>REGINA: I'm trying to
encourage you to do this.
>>MOSS: If I'm spurred
mightily enough
and if the goddess wishes
it, I suppose I can't say no.
Anyway, so in one version of
his life, he dies in 1941,
and I seem to have his memories.
And if you're a
reincarnationist,
you might say, well, did
he pop into Robert's body?
Maybe he did.
I'm not straightforward
about reincarnation.
I think we are deeply connected
to lives in other times.
Don't get me wrong about that.
But the exact nature
of the connection
might be a little more
complex than we sometimes
understand it to be.
In another reality,
he didn't die in 1941.
He went on living and went on
to do other things in his world,
in his time track after that.
>>REGINA: You had a phobia
that started leading you
to understanding this as well.
Anything that had steep
descent, stairs or anything,
you were terrified.
Let's talk about that and
then in general these kinds
of intense phobias that
we come into life with.
>>MOSS: I must say
that, my, you've
got an excellent memory
for these things, Regina.
And you focus on exactly
what matters, thank you.
I would say that sometimes
recollecting a past life
experience can be the
solution of a phobia.
I had an odd phobia about making
a descent at a certain angle
into the dark.
Picture a long escalator going
down into a dark subway tunnel,
for example.
I was once so scared
getting on the escalator
in the Bethesda subway sub
station in the metro DC area
that I had to sit on the steps.
And I thought, this
is ridiculous, Robert.
You're a grown man who's
survived all this stuff,
and you're sitting on the
steps of an escalator.
You've got to
understand this phobia.
And then it suddenly hit me.
I didn't have to do
anything special.
It just came in on me.
It was the angle of descent of
a fighter bomber plane shot down
over the Netherlands in 1941.
And once I saw that
from the cockpit,
from-- I'm getting shivers
as I say this to you--
the phobia was gone.
I remembered where this
particular fear came from,
about that particular
angle of descent.
I remembered a scene
from that life.
And at that moment,
that fear was gone.
I've never had that fear again.
>>REGINA: Well, and conversely,
someone like myself.
I have a fear of heights
and getting close
to any kind of cliff or even
at the top of the Empire State
Building.
But the very first
meditation I did
in my life, formal meditation,
I did my little thing
until I entered that calm
place and boom, this vision
appeared of a woman
in a red sari,
hurling herself off of a very
steep cliff to her death.
And I just remember
seeing in slow motion
her sari rippling in the wind
as she fell to her death.
And I didn't look at
it when she splatted.
But I've had many other
memories from other times.
And assuming-- I mean I look
at it more as past lives.
But as you say, it could
be a parallel reality.
"Slow learner" I think
is what it's called.
I think I fell to
my death many times.
And in this lifetime, I
about lose consciousness just
to even look over the edge.
>>MOSS: So I 'll
tell you a story
of what released me
from fear of heights.
It's not about past lives now.
It's about our connection
with the animal spirits.
Would you like to
hear this story?
>>REGINA: Yes, I would like to.
>>MOSS: So I was in Peru,
I was up in Machu Picchu
and so on 15 years ago.
I was sitting in the lobby
of the hotel, actually.
It's actually in Cuzco
in the lobby the hotel.
And as I'm sitting
there, I see a tiger
walking through the lobby.
Tigers are not native
to South America.
It's an energy form.
And I know the tiger quite
well, and I look at it.
And I get the sense of
the tiger's saying to me,
"I'm going to send something
to help you tonight.
Be ready."
And, you know, I work
with the animal spirits
in the shaman's way.
So when I'm in my hotel
room-- it's not the coca leaf
tea that's doing
this either I think.
It's a valid and
authentic vision.
So I'm in my room at night.
I feel an energy presence in
the room, and I pay attention.
It's a puma.
It's the big cat of the
mountains of South America.
And not in human speech
but in mind-to-mind stuff,
the puma says, "Look, Robert.
Big cats do not live
naturally at these altitudes.
You've just arrived.
You need help to adjust
your body symptoms
so you don't get
altitude sickness
and deal with your
fear of heights.
Let me come into
your body, and I'll
adjust your body so it'll
operate really well."
>>REGINA: Really?
>>MOSS: So because
it's been correctly
introduced by a big
cat that I know,
I let the energy of the
puma into my solar plexus.
And I feel it spreading
out through all the systems
of my body.
And for the next 10
days, Regina-- hey,
I'm not a Boulder, workout type.
I'm not an athletic
guy who goes and runs
20 miles a day or something.
I was the fittest, most capable
person on those mountain
trails, absolutely
no fear of heights.
Whether you call it
autosuggestion, which is fine,
or whether you call it access
to a kind of spiritual energy
that is available
to us when we're
open to it, all of
our connectedness--
it was a very healing and
helpful moment for me.
But part of my story is about
recognizing our connections
with other life forms and
other forms of energy.
>>REGINA: And let's go
into that because bear.
The bear is also a very
important symbol to you.
Let's talk about
you and the bear.
And let's talk about it,
again, in broad terms of how
any one of us can choose to
access whichever animal we
resonate with for assistance.
>>MOSS: When I first
living in North America,
I started having very
powerful dreams of the bear,
of a kind I do not remember
familiar in my life.
Hey, Australia has koalas.
They're cute.
They are not bears.
So there are no native
bears in my native country.
I dreamed again and again that
a giant bear is in my house,
sometimes in my bedroom.
I'm scared of it because
it's bigger than I am.
It's not attacking me, but I'm
scared of something mightier
than myself.
So I do this.
I put myself back in the dream.
It's a technique I teach to go
back inside a dream or vision
and go on with it-- maybe
to resolve a terror,
solve the mystery.
I'm just sitting
in an easy chair.
My intention is to meet the
bear and talk to it. [CLAP]
The bear is in front of me.
It's enormous.
I can smell it.
It's rank and feral.
I'm nervous, but I
force myself to step up
to the bear in the vision.
And the bear wraps its arms
around me, and I think,
I'm dead.
It's going to crush my ribcage.
But it's a gentle hug,
and we're the same size.
Oh, that's so much sweeter.
And I look at the
heart center, and there
is something I do not
understand rationally.
It is simply so.
There's something like an
umbilical running from my heart
center to the heart of
the bear, and energy
is pumping back and forth.
And I see we are
joined at the heart.
And the bear's message
to me is, call on me,
and I'll show you what
you need for healing
and what others
need to be healed.
And ever since then,
I've called on the bear.
And it's been an impeccable
ally in healing and protection,
for many other people as well.
>>REGINA: OK.
So this I need to
ask about then.
So when I was little,
I used to have
these dreams about
this massive spider.
It was huge.
It was as large as
a room in a house.
And every time that would
come into the house,
I would be cornered and in this
space with this massive spider.
Everyone else was dead.
But the spider
would telepathically
communicate to me that
I would never be harmed.
And it didn't occur to me
until a couple weeks ago-- this
started when I was three, maybe
four-- that maybe that spider
hadn't killed all
those other people.
Maybe it was a
form of protection.
They were dead for
some other reason.
I don't know.
But in something like that,
how would you interpret that?
What would you have me do
with a dream like that?
>>MOSS: So the dream began
when you were three years old?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MOSS: Well, first
of all, I think
that the memory of that dream
is a precious bridge between you
sitting here, Regina, and
your three-year-old self.
It's a bridge
across time from you
to the life, the
fears, the thoughts,
the challenges of your
three-year-old self.
When kids see giant
things in dreams,
it's sometimes because kids are
physically small in relation
to the world around them.
That's not my
interpretation of the dream.
I'm simply saying
that when kids see
giant spiders or giant
humans or whatever,
it partly reflects the fact
they are far from full grown
and are still physically small
and vulnerable in the world.
It's a brilliant idea
that the spider that
would appear so
menacing at first sight
might be a great ally,
a tremendous ally
available to be claimed.
I've noticed this.
Any image that
belongs to us which
is an authentic, spontaneous
image coming to us
directly is a source of
healing and empowerment
if we're ready to work with it.
I see--
>>REGINA: Well, it gave
an empowering message.
You will not be harmed.
>>MOSS: It gave you that
promise at that time.
And I think of, you know, our
protection can take many forms.
I mean the spider might be for
one dreamer a disease marker.
For another dreamer, it
might be Spider Woman,
a Native American form of the
goddess who gives the power
to change the energy web of life
to avoid illness and to create.
>>REGINA: Which is
interesting because symbolism
is very specific to us.
That's the thing about
a lot of dream books.
You open it up.
Spider, no.
And I've never gone
along with that.
>>MOSS: If I were in
favor of burning books,
I'd burn those books.
But I'm not in favor of
burning books, I hasten to add.
But I don't want anybody to give
their power away to somebody
telling them what
a symbol means.
We do much more than sit
around interpreting symbols.
We travel into the dreamspace.
So if I had this dream
in my mind right now
and it had power for
me, I might consider,
I'm going to do a
conscious journey.
I'm going to do a conscious
journey in meditation
or in visioning back
to my three-year-old.
I'm going to connect with her,
which could be wonderful--
connecting with the
joy, the energy,
the imagination of the
three-year-old self.
And we're going to
look at the spider
together and see what we can
do with the help of the spider
as protector and the one who can
help to shapeshift the energy
web of life in the body
and all the rest of it.
That would be a
great opportunity.
>>REGINA: Absolutely OK.
Let's go back now.
When you started
writing, as you said,
you were having
these experiences
and this kind of
parallel reality.
And so first of all, you
were breezing through school.
Your test scores
were-- You would
dream the answers
before the test.
>>MOSS: I used to dream the
answers to exams ahead of time.
I once said this at a very
grand Rotary Club in Bermuda.
The Rotary in Bermuda is
full of ex-pats and Brits,
and the British
governor was there.
And I said, I used to dream the
exam questions ahead of time,
so I did well.
And the black Bermudan
Secretary of Education
got up and said in her
very correct English,
I just want to endorse
the statement by Mr. Moss.
I did very well in
school examinations
by dreaming the questions
ahead of time too.
And I recommend to
anybody with children,
that you would advise them to
dream the exam questions ahead
of time.
>>REGINA: That is wonderful.
Well that same thing not only
carry you through school,
but then when you decided
to begin your career
as a writer of fiction, the
spy novels-- By the way,
before we get any further, your
favorite two spy novels in case
we want a little summer reading.
What would you recommend for us?
>>MOSS: One is
called Moscow Rules.
Moscow Rules in American.
And the other is called
Carnival of Spies.
They're out of print,
but you can find them.
You can chase them down.
>>REGINA: Carnival of Spies.
>>MOSS: Carnival of Spies.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MOSS: That's
probably my favorite.
It's romantic, atmospheric,
1930s, love and danger.
>>REGINA: I will find a copy.
OK.
So this was happening
in the same way.
The writing was flowing
through you out of some memory
or experience from
a parallel reality?
>>MOSS: No, not always.
It wasn't always
as easy as that.
However, dreams did
guide me in the plotting
and the characterization.
I mean, when you go to my novel
Moscow Rules, for example,
there's this boozy KGB
philosopher Nikolsky.
He has a lot of dreams.
I attributed my dreams to him.
And some of the action
is my dream plot
transferred to the characters.
So I've always used this
stuff in all my roles in life.
I didn't talk
about it so nakedly
as I do now until another
shift in my life came along.
>>REGINA: OK let's
talk about that shift,
because you were doing well--
first class, big advances,
royalties, living the high
life, young man still.
And then you started
having the call
that you were supposed
to actually move deeper
into the shaman
aspect of yourself.
And everything changed.
>>MOSS: Yeah.
There was something pursuing me.
In 1981 just after my first two
novels hit the New York Times
bestseller list, I very
nearly went off to West Africa
to be trained and initiate
as a babala kavitha
from the Aruba tradition.
One of the links I
feel connected to,
and the man who had
advised me on this
said when I told
him, "No, I'm not
going to become an African
witch doctor in this life."
He said, "Robert, fine.
It's like this.
The spirits are like people.
They fall in love.
They'll keep seeking you
under different costumes
until you accept your full
relationship with them."
Very prescient.
So in the mid-'80s, I move to
a farm in upstate New York.
I knew no one in
the neighborhood.
I moved because of
the red-tailed hawk
which dropped a wing
feather between my legs
under an old, white tree
behind the farmhouse.
>>REGINA: An oak as I recall.
>>MOSS: An oak, yes.
That was the clincher.
The red-tailed hawk and the oak.
And on that land, I started
dreaming very strong.
In the middle of one night, I
found myself in a lucid dream
state, just flying around
over the landscape.
Cool, everybody likes flying
around in their dreams.
>>REGINA: I know.
It's the best.
>>MOSS: It's the best.
>>REGINA: Best dreams.
>>MOSS: It's just absolute fun.
And then I feel a tug
of someone's intention.
I notice as I'm
flying, I seem to be
flying on the wings of the hawk.
And I'm pulled down into a cabin
in the woods near Montreal.
And there's this beautiful,
older, Native American woman
who's stroking a wampum belt,
a beaded belt with a she-wolf
and two humans on it, and speaks
to me in a musical cadence
language like lake
water lapping.
And I understand nothing
of what she's saying.
It's not a New Age dream where
your head's inside the bubble,
and you get it all at once.
I come back.
I'm thrilled.
I'm excited.
I know this is for real.
It's important.
Who the heck is she?
I don't know for sure,
but my research begins--
or my research deepens.
And eventually I have to
study the Mohawk language
and learn an archaic form of
it to communicate with her.
And I get to understand.
She's no Narandiwana,
a woman of power.
She's Nedzedsots a dreamer,
a shaman from 300 years
ago reaching to me
from across time,
from across
dimensions to bring me
alive to certain essential
things about life, healing,
dreaming, and everything.
And the most essential is
this: dreaming is about soul.
It's about learning what
the soul wants in your life.
It's about getting
soul back in the body.
And the job of decent people
and a healthy community
is to gather around each
other, encourage each other
to tell the dream
wherever it comes from.
And honor the dream by taking
action to serve the soul
and get the soul energy
back in the body.
So this was a huge shift.
I came to understand
in terms of past lives
and other personalities
that she had
tried to influence a very
colorful figure on the New York
frontier-- a big, hard-living,
Anglo-Irishman with whom
I have some affinity.
She had tried to
reach into his mind,
and most certainly she
succeeded reaching into mine.
I think she actually
has influenced
me more than she influenced
him in her own time.
So that's a transtemporal,
past-life drama.
But it's also
going on right now.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Yes.
OK.
And so now, you're
on the shamanic path.
You're taking this work, and
you're now writing nonfiction.
You begin giving workshops.
And reality starts
changing for you.
Was it disconcerting at first?
I mean, this is a field
that not many really
had studied deeply
up to this point.
>>MOSS: Well, all of us know
it's never really, really easy
to make a huge
change in your life.
Not just a change of
job or relationship,
but a change in your whole
relationship in the world.
>>REGINA: Well,
at a vanity level,
you had a wonderful life.
On the egoic level, you
already had a wonderful life.
Yes.
>>MOSS: Yeah.
And you've got bills to pay,
and there's all of that.
There's the money.
There are all sort of
questions that come up.
So I write very candidly
in The Boy Who Died
and Came Back about
the return journey,
about learning certain things.
And then learning how
to live in the world,
how to keep it together,
how to walk in this world
with the vivid knowledge
of other worlds operating
simultaneously.
And I invoke the cycle
of the butterfly.
As we know the
butterfly is going
to have to turn into a
restless stew of mush
before it becomes
inside the chrysalis,
before it takes on
shiny-winged life.
I talk about how my dreams
and the play of synchronicity
help me to get through.
And I talk about how
children-- my relations
with my own children,
with other children,
listening to their dreams,
encouraging their imagination--
helped me define
my way as a teacher
and helped me to confirm
my own path in life.
It's a path which
there's no career track.
I call myself a dream teacher.
You can't find a
career track for that
yet, though I'm trying
to create one for others.
>>REGINA: And when
you work with groups,
you start noticing things.
I even notice this casually.
There will be maybe
a significant dream.
I'll talk to a
girlfriend or two.
They just had a similar kind
of dream in that same area,
anyway.
And then you can
start looking at what
you may be dreaming as a soul
family or even as a society.
And we talked about this
in my last interview
with you quite a bit,
but maybe just touch
on some of what you see.
Especially in the
Eastern Bloc countries
where you teach a lot now
and you have for years.
Talk a little bit
about what happens
when you're dreaming
together as society.
>>MOSS: Well, I've been
gaining a great deal
from teaching a lot in
East European countries
that have suffered the tragedy
of being stuck between Germany
and Russia and overrun
by both of them
recurringly throughout
their history, what
with the traumatic
World War II history
and a traumatic
continuing situation.
I love going there and
teaching whole groups of people
how to do healing
with the ancestors.
How to do cultural
soul recovery.
How to connect with authentic
traditions of the land
that are important to them.
We'll do conscious streaming.
We'll have a circle of people.
We're using shamanic
drumming, and our intention--
for example-- is to access
the ancestors of the families
of the land and effect
healing with them.
Our intention might
be to go and find
a connection with an
ancient wisdom bearer
from the goddess tradition
of the Baltic, for example.
And the results have
been phenomenal.
This is deep work.
It's collective work as
well as individual work,
and something for which I feel
a very, very strong calling.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Yes I remember.
And anybody can watch one
of our other interviews,
and you went into
great detail on some
of what happened in those.
But as you're
talking about this,
one of the things I find
interesting is in your book,
you talked about the
notion of the danger
of knowing our other selves.
Our other lives are too
much, knowing too much.
Why is that a danger?
>>MOSS: Well, the trick
is to remember things
from other lives without
being oppressed by them.
Without buying into some
story of linear karma,
for example, which
crushes you, making
you think that you're guilty
and carrying the burden
or carrying the repetitive
pattern of things from the past
and have no violation, no
free will to change it.
Another danger is of just
being completely overwhelmed
and absorbed in a drama from
another time in a way that
makes you incapable
of operating freely
and consciously in
your present time.
For a time, quite frankly, when
I met Sir William Johnson--
that was his name, the
Anglo-Irishman-- an island
woman, the Mohawk
shaman, clan mother,
I was in danger of living
their dramas in my own time
and forgetting that
I had an obligation
to be present to my own
time and fully of it.
I was beginning to live
an 18th-century story
in the late 20th century.
That's an interesting tale,
but it's not satisfactory.
We must live in our
own time and recognize
that the only
fundamental time is now.
It's our-- it's
a point of power.
And if we're connected
to that or to something
from the future, we should
operate in this moment of time
to maximize on the
creative possibilities
of these connections.
We talk about the past.
I also personally feel
responsible and connected
to a priestess scientist who
lives about three centuries
from now and is trying
to repair this world.
And I feel that my work is
possibly making a contribution
to what she and her
order of sisters
will be able to do three
centuries in the future.
So it's not just
about the burdens
or the challenges of the past.
It's about our obligations
to those who come after us.
One of things I learned
from the Mohawk,
from the Six Nations
of the Iroquois,
is that we must think about
the consequences of everything,
down to seven generations
beyond ourselves.
Now I sometimes forget that
humans are forgetful animals.
But she, the woman from
the future, will remind me.
So there's that.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And what happens
when, for example,
the woman of the
future, you're talking--
I'm talking space now.
What happens when we're dreaming
of being in other lands,
and repeatedly?
And is that
preparing us possibly
then for a movement
to another land
to introduce ourselves
to another soul tribe?
How does that movement
work in dream time?
>>MOSS: Well, I
think it's like this.
In dreaming-- whether
it's spontaneous night
dreams or shamanic journeying
or a certain kind of meditation
or lucid dreaming or
that in-between state
of hypnagogia-- in
dreaming, we get out there.
We go beyond the rules
of physical reality.
We go beyond body and brain.
We go through the curtain walls
of our ordinary understanding.
We go into different realities.
We go into parallel times,
past times, future times.
We go into places where
the dead are at home.
We go into places of
healing and initiation
and training and pleasure
in other realities.
And they're real.
We go to other realities.
I mean, physics
tells us there are
realities beyond the physical.
This is a way of
traveling, effortlessly,
into those other realms.
And then when you start
recognizing what's
going on every night
in your sleep dreams,
you can house the images
that have some potential.
And you can learn
to go consciously
through the doorways
of what you remember
from your spontaneous
experiences
and become a conscious,
multi-dimensional traveler.
Which is what I encourage
people to be and to do.
It's a great adventure.
It's limitless.
And you don't have to
pay for plane tickets
or wait for your bags.
>>REGINA: But sometimes you
need to move your body too.
And I always find
that interesting.
When something leads you to
leave your tribe of people,
where your DNA may have been
planted over and over again,
and to break free
and go to a new area
and start inculcating that new
DNA into your soul for future
experiences.
There was this one-- it just
triggered the memory of it,
talking about practicing.
I had a friend.
She's a deep dreamer.
And we went to Sedona
on a little trip.
It's the first time
I had ever been
to Sedona, but with this wild
shaman guy who just showed up
in our lives and said, come.
And we said, OK.
So we went, and we were
staying at her son's house.
And there were six of us.
And he's a very hospitable
man, so we crashed on the floor
in sleeping bags
and all of this.
And the wild and
crazy shaman was
taking advantage of hospitality.
And so Linda, my friend,
said to the host, her son,
I am so sorry.
I can't believe I did
this to you again.
Why do I keep doing this to you?
And he said, what do you mean,
why do you keep doing this?
It turned out, we
found out over time,
she had never done
that to him before.
But the lucid dreaming--
what we were told later,
we had practiced
this trip, that was
going to be very
important for our futures,
over and over in dream time with
the same cast of characters.
So she truly felt
she had already
done this disturbing thing and
been a burden upon her son.
When she finally found,
no that was a dream
you've been practicing together.
And that was ultimately
how I moved to Sedona--
was because we
did come together.
We did go to that space.
That crazy shaman did take us
to places that in a meditation,
I later recognized
and moved there.
>>MOSS: So was she able to avoid
the things she was apologizing
for in waking reality?
And did the rehearsal enable
her to do something differently
when it came to
the physical event?
>>REGINA: Well, I think when she
realized it was only a dream,
she didn't feel quite as
guilty for having burdened
them only one time instead
of upon numerous occasions.
She wouldn't do it again.
>>MOSS: But let's just talk
about this aspect of dreaming.
Dreaming shows us challenges and
opportunities that lie ahead.
It enables us, in the
process of rehearsing,
to get ready to
make better choices
and avoid things we don't like.
That's what I was looking at.
So if you can see
it, you might be
able to do something to
change it for the better.
And whether you see
it through intuition
or whether you see
it through dreaming,
if you could see the
future, you might
be able to change
it for the better--
even if it's an event
that is intractable.
You can't stop the
eruption of that volcano.
You can't stop a death that's
a result of a certain life.
You can be prepared for
it, so that when it comes,
you are ready.
And that's a survival
function of dreaming,
which most of our
ancestors have understood
but which the modern West,
and dream psychologists
in the West, still have great
difficulty understanding.
One of the things that
goes on in dreaming
is we go ahead of ourselves.
We walk the roads of
this life and look
at the potholes, craters--
>>REGINA: That's what I
call practicing, rehearsing.
>>MOSS: --and the opportunity.
And then we can use it.
>>REGINA: Yes.
I mean, that's very important.
We don't often look
at it that way.
Let's talk about Tinkerbell, the
place between wake and sleep.
You write about it in your book.
>>MOSS: This is the gift of
the Disney scriptwriters.
It's actually not in
JM Barrie's Peter Pan.
But Disney does some good
stuff from time to time.
I give them full
credit for this.
When Peter Pan is sad because
his fairy friend is going away,
Tink says to him, "Look for
me in the place between sleep
and awake.
There you will always find me."
This is profound and beautiful
counsel for all of us
who are interested in
expanding our consciousness
and learning more about
the larger reality.
This space between sleep
and waking-- wake dream,
in between-- it's
an incredible space
for creative problem solving.
It's an incredible
space for becoming
more psychically or
intuitively alive.
It's a space for
meeting the inner guide,
the inner voice you can trust.
It's a launch pad
for lucid dreaming,
because the images
that rise and fall
when you're in
that drifty state.
You're not quite asleep
or you're not fully awake.
You're drifting in between.
Images rise and fall, and you
can choose to take one of them
and stay with it and go off
on a lucid dream adventure.
In my books-- and
particularly in the new one,
the thriller memoir
that I've written--
there are lots and
lots of narratives
of what becomes
possible in that state.
I would say that this is
arguably the most interesting
state of expanded consciousness.
It's available to us
on an everyday basis.
>>REGINA: And I
always get frustrated
when I've had an amazing
experience in that place
between, which
happens all the time.
But I snap myself
back so quickly.
Of course I'm living
a different reality,
and within-- of course--
a second it's gone.
How do we stop
ourself from the loss
of memory of these
amazing experiences?
>>MOSS: Well, the short answer
is always the same-- practice,
practice, practice.
I mean this--
>>REGINA: But it's not
a state you can control.
How do you practice in a
state you have, in one sense,
not a lot of conscious
control over?
>>MOSS: We don't
want to control.
We want to navigate.
That's the reason I didn't
like the term "lucid
dreaming" some years ago.
Control and manipulate
your dreams.
I mean, I don't want to do that.
The dream world is
wiser and vaster
than the ordinary consciousness.
>>REGINA: So do you put
a message in before?
OK.
You're in this wonderful state.
You're having this
wonderful experience.
How do you bring it back
with you, consciously?
>>MOSS: Well, there are
two great questions here.
The first is how do
you sustain that state.
And the second is how
do you bring it back.
Well, the answer to both
is the same- practice,
practice, practice.
But let's go to the how
do you bring it back.
Well, you want to
write something down.
You want to record something.
Our memories are short.
We delude ourselves
into thinking
we're going to remember a lot
unless we record something.
If you want to get
good at this, you
want to get more
practice at dream recall
or bringing back the memories
of the place between sleep
and awake, get in the
habit of keeping a journal
and writing something down.
You don't have very much?
Well, write something
down anyway.
It's a way of saying to
the part of yourself that
is the traveler,
that is the dreamer,
I'm going to honor you.
I'm going to keep
a record of it.
It's a way of feeding
the idea that you're
willing to remember.
>>REGINA: OK.
That makes perfect sense.
Of course, you just set a
subconscious program there.
OK.
Before we wrap up
our conversation,
when we were talking off camera,
we were talking about a word
that no one ever hears.
"Amnanesus?"
>>MOSS: Anamnesis.
>>REGINA: An-num-knee-sis.
>>MOSS: When I was a
teenager in Australia,
one of my invisible companions--
invisible to other people
but not to me-- was a
radiant, beautiful, young man.
I would say from the eastern
edge of the Mediterranean,
somewhere like that.
Ionia.
Who would speak to me in Greek.
Dreams can set us
research assignments.
My Greek has never
been very good,
but I'd have to
keep a dictionary.
And he told me, as
I understood him,
that all knowledge
that is important
comes through anamnesis.
You'll find the word in
English dictionaries.
It's not a household word.
It means, literally,
remembering.
But he's talking out
of the philosophy
of the ancient Greeks.
And in the philosophy of
the neo-Platonist school,
anamnesis is soul remembering.
It's remembering
the knowledge that
belongs to you on the level
of soul, spirit, naos,
mind-- before you
come into the body.
In the doctrine of
the Pythagoreans,
anamnesis is the
recollection of past lives
and other lives to
which you're connected
and the ability to
communicate across time
with those personalities
in their own time.
As a neo-Platonist
philosopher Proculus
believed he was
communicating with Plutarch,
the priest of Apollo
and biographer,
in nightly dialogues.
I recommend this.
I recommend trying to
converse across time
with those personalities you
feel connected to, seeing
whether you can borrow gifts
and lessons from each other.
>>REGINA: And so for
you, the greatest benefit
in having remembered a fair
amount of your soul's journey?
>>MOSS: Well, I feel that I'm
living a pretty exciting story.
It's more interesting than the
story of up-and-down dramas,
though I pay close
attention to the bumps
and grinds of everyday life.
I live by synchronicity.
You know that.
There is a sense
of a mythic drama.
And if you have that
sense of mythic drama,
it does give you
courage and sometimes
clarity to get through
the other stuff in life.
>>REGINA: And a final comment
on dreams, our dreaming life
and why we need to embrace
that and give it some credence.
>>MOSS: Because it's going
to be your way of finding
your bigger and braver story.
The Australian Aborigines
say the big stories
are hunting the right
people to tell them.
Now I would say to live them.
How do you get in touch
with your bigger story
to give you that
courage and energy?
Dreaming is one of the ways.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
Thank you so much, Robert.
I love the book.
What did you call it?
A personal thriller?
>>MOSS: Yes, I did
call it a thriller.
It is something of a thriller,
a metaphysical thriller.
>>REGINA: Meanwhile,
I think I'm going
to pick up Carnival of
Spies as a summer read.
>>MOSS: Good luck.
>>REGINA: Thank you so much.
Until next time.
>>MOSS: Our pleasure.
>>REGINA: If you enjoyed
our conversation,
you might want to also watch my
previous interviews with Robert
in the Conscious Media Network
archives, here on Gaiam TV.
We go into great depths
about the dream world.
Meanwhile, the
book here is titled
The Boy Who Died and
Came Back to Life.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[MUSIC PLAYING]